Add blog article on the change to registry.k8s.io (#38059)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-11-28-registry-k8s-io-change.md

---
layout: blog
title: "registry.k8s.io: faster, cheaper and Generally Available (GA)"
date: 2022-11-28
slug: registry-k8s-io-faster-cheaper-ga

> ---
> # registry.k8s.io: faster, cheaper and Generally Available (GA)
> 
> Starting with Kubernetes 1.25, our container image registry has changed from k8s.gcr.io to [registry.k8s.io](https://registry.k8s.io). This new registry spreads the load across multiple Cloud Providers & Regions, functioning as a sort of content delivery network (CDN) for Kubernetes container images. This change reduces the project’s reliance on a single entity and provides a faster download experience for a large number of users.

Reviewer: [[Preview](https://deploy-preview-38059--kubernetes-io-main-staging.netlify.app/blog/2022/11/28/registry-k8s-io-faster-cheaper-ga/)]
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/46767780/203881971-86bf562e-72ab-4103-ba99-57e1393ddca1.png)

In the rendered version, the title is duplicated; the first one is from the front-matter, and the second one is from the H1 heading.
So I suggest to remove the latter one.
And let's add the 'Author' marker. 😊

```suggestion
---

**Author**: Frederico Muñoz (SAS)

Starting with Kubernetes 1.25, our container image registry has changed from k8s.gcr.io to [registry.k8s.io](https://registry.k8s.io). This new registry spreads the load across multiple Cloud Providers & Regions, functioning as a sort of content delivery network (CDN) for Kubernetes container images. This change reduces the project’s reliance on a single entity and provides a faster download experience for a large number of users.
```

Reviewer 2: I think we'll need to Adolfo's name too since he has co-authored the blog in addition to the above.

Author: @jihoon-seo @jihoon-seo actually, only Adolfo's name should be there, mine shouldn't be references at all. I hadn't added it because I was going to check how @puerco preferred to be be styled (with company name or without, with "Puerco" also mentioned, etc) but didn't wanted to delay the  possible reviews.
That said, I'll add something as a starting point to make it clear who is the author and change it later.

Author: @divya-mohan0209 @jihoon-seo actually, only @puerco 's name shjould be there, I didn't add it because I was going to check how he preferred it to be displayed. I'll add something right now though.

## TL;DR: What you need to know about this change

* Container images for Kubernetes releases from 1.25 onward are no longer published to k8s.gcr.io, only to registry.k8s.io.
* In the upcoming December patch releases, the new registry domain default will be backported to all branches still in support (1.22, 1.23, 1.24).

> * If you run in a restricted environment and apply strict domain/IP address access policies that are limited to k8s.gcr.io, they __image pulls will not function__ after the migration to this new registry. For these users, the recommended method is to mirror the release images to a private registry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If you run in a restricted environment and apply strict domain/IP address access policies limited to k8s.gcr.io, the __image pulls will not function__ after the migration to this new registry. For these users, the recommended method is to mirror the release images to a private registry.
```

## Why has Kubernetes changed to a different image registry?

k8s.gcr.io is hosted on a custom [Google Container Registry](https://cloud.google.com/container-registry) (GCR) domain that was setup solely for the Kubernetes project. This has worked well since the inception of the project, and we thank Google for providing these resources, but today there are other cloud providers and vendors that would like to host images to provide a better experience for the people on their platforms. In addition to Google’s [renewed commitment to donate $3 million](https://www.cncf.io/google-cloud-recommits-3m-to-kubernetes/) to support the project's infrastructure, Amazon announced a matching donation during their Kubecon NA 2022 keynote in Detroit. This will provide a better experience for users (closer servers = faster downloads) and will reduce the egress bandwidth and costs from GCR at the same time. registry.k8s.io will spread the load between Google and Amazon, with other providers to follow in the future.

## Why isn’t there a stable list of domains/IPs? Why can’t I restrict image pulls?

> registry.k8s.io is a [secure blob redirector](https://github.com/kubernetes/registry.k8s.io/blob/main/cmd/archeio/docs/request-handling.md) that connects clients to the closest cloud provider. The nature of this change means that a client which is pulling an image could be redirected to any one of a large number of backends. We expect the set of backends to keep changing and will only increase as more and more cloud providers and vendors come on board to help mirror the release images. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
registry.k8s.io is a [secure blob redirector](https://github.com/kubernetes/registry.k8s.io/blob/main/cmd/archeio/docs/request-handling.md) that connects clients to the closest cloud provider. The nature of this change means that a client pulling an image could be redirected to any one of a large number of backends. We expect the set of backends to keep changing and will only increase as more and more cloud providers and vendors come on board to help mirror the release images. 
```

Restrictive control mechanisms like man-in-the-middle proxies or network policies that restrict access to a specific list of IPs/domains will break with this change. For these scenarios, we encourage you to mirror the release images to a local registry that you have strict control over.

> For more information on this policy, please see the [registry.k8s.io stability guarantees documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/registry.k8s.io#stability).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information on this policy, please see the [stability section of the registry.k8s.io documentation](https://github.com/kubernetes/registry.k8s.io#stability).
```

## What kind of errors will I see? How will I know if I’m still using the old address?

Errors may depend on what kind of container runtime you are using, and what endpoint you are routed to, but it should present as a container failing to be created with the warning `FailedCreatePodSandBox`.

Below is an example error message showing a proxied deployment failing to pull due to an unknown certificate:

```
FailedCreatePodSandBox: Failed to create pod sandbox: rpc error: code = Unknown desc = Error response from daemon: Head “https://us-west1-docker.pkg.dev/v2/k8s-artifacts-prod/images/pause/manifests/3.8”: x509: certificate signed by unknown authority
```

## I’m impacted by this change, how do I revert to the old registry address?

> If using the new registry domain name is not an option for you, you can revert to the old domain name for cluster versions less than 1.25. Keep in mind that eventually, you will have to switch to the new registry, as new image tags will no longer be pushed to GCR.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If using the new registry domain name is not an option, you can revert to the old domain name for cluster versions less than 1.25. Keep in mind that, eventually, you will have to switch to the new registry, as new image tags will no longer be pushed to GCR.
```

### Reverting the registry name in kubeadm
The registry used by kubeadm to pull its images can be controlled by two methods:

Setting the `--image-repository` flag. 

```
kubeadm init --image-repository=k8s.gcr.io
```

Or in [kubeadm config](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/config-api/kubeadm-config.v1beta3/) `ClusterConfiguration`:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubeadm.k8s.io/v1beta3
kind: ClusterConfiguration
imageRepository: "k8s.gcr.io"
```

### Reverting the Registry Name in kubelet

The image used by kubelet for the pod sandbox (`pause`) can be overridden by setting the `--pod-infra-container-image` flag. For example:

```
kubelet --pod-infra-container-image=k8s.gcr.io/pause:3.5
```

## Acknowledgments

> __Change is hard__, and evolving our image serving platform is needed to ensure a sustainable future for the project. We strive to make things better for everyone using Kubernetes. Many contributors from all corners of our community have been working long and hard to ensure we are making the best decisions possible, that plans are executed, and that we do our best to communicate those plans. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
__Change is hard__, and evolving our image-serving platform is needed to ensure a sustainable future for the project. We strive to make things better for everyone using Kubernetes. Many contributors from all corners of our community have been working long and hard to ensure we are making the best decisions possible, executing plans, and doing our best to communicate those plans. 
```

---
layout: blog
title: "registry.k8s.io: faster, cheaper and Generally Available (GA)"
date: 2022-11-28
slug: registry-k8s-io-faster-cheaper-ga
---

> **Author**: Adolfo García Veytia (Chainguard)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Authors**: Adolfo García Veytia (Chainguard),  Bob Killen (Google)
```
